hello i'm pat minogue with the
University of Florida and this is
Japanese climbing firm which is
something of a super invasive leg odium
japonicum even as I touch it
there are numerous spores that are
coming out of the sporophytes and it
reproduces by spores they're microscopic
those spores can move in the air they
can go with water currents they can move
be moved by animals and by people so it
has a way of getting around Japanese
climbing fern begins as a few scattered
individuals you'll see it in particular
close to pine stems if you're in a pine
stand it'll climb up those stems it
likes the bark it's easy for Japanese
climbing fern to go up the bark to me
the big problem with Japanese climbing
fern is that grows over the top of some
of our important understory vegetation
like this American beautyberry which is
important to wildlife as a food source
very soon this plant will be overtopped
it'll be drugged literally drugged
towards the ground it will be all
covered up with this vine it'll choke
this plant out and it'll die you can see
here this brownish colored Ray keys that
is the main stem the leafy branches off
the main Rockies or pane a are compound
and triangular in overall outline they
are four to eight inches long the
leaflets are peniel's
are lobed and stalked the terminal lobes
are often dissected the basal lobes are
irregularly load or dissected the leaf
blade tissue is pubescent below with
short curved hairs the Fertile leaflets
are contracted in shape with two rows of
sporangia along the leaf margin which is
rolled to partially cover the speranza
numerous numerous spores are produced
from those sporangia and most spore
production occurs in the month of
October
another way that Japanese climbing fern
can spread is by rhizomes below ground
these are usually dark in color almost a
lack Japanese climbing fern to me looks
quite different than old-world climbing
fern because of its feathery light green
fronds which contrasts to the leathery
appearance of the old world climbing
fern which has leaf margins which are
more entire whereas Japanese climbing
fern is lobed we're in a 20 year old /
pine stand here north of blunt's town in
the coastal plain of Florida here
Loogootee and japonicum japanese
climbing fern a super invasive plant
this area had been raked for pine straw
just four years ago and they fertilized
to promote the development of additional
needles with good rainfall this plant
moved in and has now covered the ground
in most of the area it's climbing up
these trees it can climb easily to as
much as 90 feet off the ground I regard
it as a super invasive weed Japanese
climbing fern is a significant threat to
natural reproduction in pine and
hardwood force it's begun an exponential
rate of spread through North Florida
please learn to recognize this plant and
bring it under control right away